---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# The Aggregator Node

At the core of Vola Network is the Aggregator Node, which in addition to acting as a blockchain node, serves as the interface for users to connect and manage their files. This node facilitates communication between different storage solutions, allowing users to access, organize, and retrieve their data from a single platform.The major responsibilities of the node includes:

## Storage Aggregation

The nodes on the network are responsible for communicating and managing user’s files across different storage solutions while abstracting it from the user. They are responsible for managing and publishing file ownership proof and migrating user’s data back and forth between various solutions for reliability and availability.

## Web 2 Authentication

The nodes are also responsible for allowing the authentication of web 2 users leveraging ZKP on their web identities from web oauth providers. The validator nodes on the network also need to periodically commit to the signing key of the web 2 identity providers on the chain, for validation of the tokens generated by those providers.

## Wallet Mapping

For each web 2 user’s upon verifying proof of authentication, the identity needs to be mapped with a wallet address for that particular web 2 identity that can only be accessed through submission of the web 2 authentication proof for the transactions on the chain.

## Multi-chain Support

Being built on the substrate framework, Vola network leverages Substrate's multi-chain capabilities, enabling support for interactions across various blockchain ecosystems. This multi-chain support ensures interoperability, allowing users to use storage solutions without being locked into a single chain.
Furthermore, financial transactions related to storage services are settled on the Cardano blockchain, offering secure and cost-effective transaction options.
