docs/introduction/our-solution.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

# Our Solution

Vola offers a comprehensive solution to the challenges users face in managing their data across multiple storage platforms though substrate based blockchain. By creating a unified storage aggregator chain, Vola addresses the key issues identified in the current digital landscape. Here’s how Vola effectively tackles each challenge:

<ThemedImage
alt="Vola Chain"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Chain-light.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Chain-dark.png'),
  }}
/>

### Unified Interface for Storage Management

<ThemedImage
alt="Vola Network Abstraction"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Abstraction-light.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Abstraction-dark.png'),
  }}
/>

Vola serves as a central interface for users, integrating various storage solutions—both centralized and decentralized—into a single platform. This cohesive experience simplifies data access and management, allowing users to retrieve, organize, and control their files without the confusion of navigating multiple services.

### Streamlined Data Management

By utilizing the Aggregator Node, Vola enables users to manage their data effortlessly. Users can easily track where their files are stored, eliminating the frustration of juggling multiple accounts and interfaces. The platform simplifies the process of file organization and retrieval, saving users time and enhancing productivity.

### Enhanced Security and Privacy

Vola prioritizes user security by implementing end-to-end encryption for all data. Files are encrypted on the user's device before transmission, ensuring that only the user has access to the decryption keys. Additionally, the use of Zero-Knowledge Proof (ZKP) for authentication ensures that user identities are verified without exposing sensitive information, thus providing robust security and privacy throughout the storage process.

### Interoperability Across Platforms

Leveraging Substrate’s multi-chain capabilities, Vola facilitates interoperability between different storage solutions and blockchains. This feature allows users to transfer data seamlessly and utilize services across various ecosystems without being locked into a single platform. By enabling flexible interactions, Vola empowers users to choose the best storage options for their needs.

### Simplified Transition to Web3

Vola addresses the transition challenges from Web2 to Web3 by integrating Web2 authentication through OAuth and ZKP. Users can authenticate using their existing identities, simplifying the onboarding process. By providing a familiar interface and experience, Vola eases the shift to decentralized storage solutions, encouraging broader adoption of Web3 technologies.

Commit message:

feat: update docs for compute

docs/introduction/our-solution.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
draft: true
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

# Our Solution

Vola offers a comprehensive solution to the challenges users face in managing their compute (CPU/GPU) and storage resources across multiple platforms through a Substrate-based blockchain. By creating a unified DePIN aggregator chain, Vola addresses the key issues identified in the current digital landscape. Here’s how Vola effectively tackles each challenge:

<ThemedImage
alt="Vola Chain"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Chain-light.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Chain-dark.png'),
  }}
/>

### Unified Interface for Compute & Storage Management

<ThemedImage
alt="Vola Network Abstraction"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Abstraction-light.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/diagrams/Vola-Abstraction-dark.png'),
  }}
/>

Vola serves as a central interface for users, integrating various compute and storage solutions—both centralized and decentralized—into a single platform. This cohesive experience simplifies resource allocation, data access, and management, allowing users to execute compute tasks, retrieve data, and control their files without the confusion of navigating multiple services.

### Streamlined Resource Management

By utilizing the Aggregator Node, Vola enables users to manage their compute workloads and data storage effortlessly. Users can easily track where their files are stored and where their compute tasks are executed, eliminating the frustration of juggling multiple accounts and interfaces. The platform simplifies the process of resource allocation, task execution, and file retrieval, saving users time and enhancing productivity.

### Enhanced Security and Privacy

Vola prioritizes user security by implementing end-to-end encryption for all data and computational tasks. Files are encrypted on the user's device before transmission, ensuring that only the user has access to the decryption keys. Additionally, Zero-Knowledge Proof (ZKP) authentication ensures that user identities are verified without exposing sensitive information, providing robust security and privacy throughout both compute and storage processes.

### Interoperability Across Compute & Storage Platforms

Leveraging Substrate’s multi-chain capabilities, Vola facilitates interoperability between different compute and storage solutions across blockchains. This feature allows users to seamlessly allocate compute power, transfer data, and utilize services across various ecosystems without being locked into a single platform. By enabling flexible interactions, Vola empowers users to choose the best compute and storage options for their needs.

### Simplified Transition to Web3

Vola addresses the transition challenges from Web2 to Web3 by integrating Web2 authentication through OAuth and ZKP. Users can authenticate using their existing identities, simplifying the onboarding process. By providing a familiar interface and experience, Vola eases the shift to decentralized compute and storage solutions, encouraging broader adoption of Web3 technologies.
