docs/introduction/problem-statement.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Problem Statement

In the rapidly evolving digital landscape, users face significant challenges when it comes to managing their data across various storage solutions. Here are some key issues that highlight the need for a unified storage aggregator like Vola:

### Fragmentation of Storage Solutions

Users today rely on a mix of centralized services (like Google Drive and Dropbox) and decentralized options (such as IPFS and Iagon) to store their files. This fragmentation creates a disjointed experience, making it difficult for users to access and manage their data efficiently. The lack of a cohesive interface often leads to confusion and inefficiency.

### Complexity of Data Management

Juggling multiple accounts, credentials, and interfaces complicates data management. Users often struggle to remember which files are stored where and how to access them, resulting in wasted time and frustration. The absence of a centralized platform means users must repeatedly navigate various systems to locate and organize their files.

### Security and Privacy Concerns

With increasing awareness of data breaches and privacy issues, users are understandably concerned about the security of their files. Centralized storage solutions are often vulnerable to hacking, while decentralized platforms may lack robust privacy measures. Users need a solution that ensures their data remains secure and private throughout the storage process.

### Lack of Interoperability

The current ecosystem lacks interoperability between different storage platforms and blockchains. Users are often locked into specific ecosystems, making it difficult to transfer data or use services across chains. This limitation restricts user flexibility and choice, hampering the potential for innovation in data storage solutions.

### Transition Challenges from Web2 to Web3

As the digital world shifts toward decentralized solutions, users face hurdles when transitioning from Web2 to Web3. Many users are unfamiliar with blockchain technology and may find the authentication and onboarding processes complex. This gap can hinder widespread adoption of decentralized storage solutions.

These challenges highlight the need for a unified solution that can address the fragmentation of storage platforms, enhance security and authentication, improve interoperability, and provide cost-effective, privacy-focused options.

Commit message:

feat: update docs for compute

docs/introduction/problem-statement.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Problem Statement

In the rapidly evolving digital landscape, users face significant challenges when it comes to managing their compute and storage resources across various decentralized and centralized solutions. Here are some key issues that highlight the need for a unified DePIN aggregator like Vola:

### Fragmentation of Compute & Storage Solutions

Users today rely on a mix of centralized services (like AWS, Google Cloud, Google Drive, and Dropbox) and decentralized options (such as Akash, Golem, Render Network, IPFS, and Iagon) to store files and perform computational tasks. This fragmentation creates a disjointed experience, making it difficult for users to efficiently access, manage, and allocate both compute (CPU/GPU) and storage resources. The lack of a cohesive interface often leads to confusion and inefficiency.

### Complexity of Resource Management

Juggling multiple accounts, credentials, and interfaces complicates the management of compute workloads and data storage. Users often struggle to remember which files are stored where and how to allocate compute power effectively, resulting in wasted time, underutilized resources, and frustration. The absence of a centralized platform means users must repeatedly navigate various systems to optimize compute and storage needs.

### Security and Privacy Concerns

With increasing awareness of data breaches and privacy issues, users are understandably concerned about the security of their stored files and computational processes. Centralized cloud compute and storage solutions are often vulnerable to hacking, while decentralized platforms may lack robust privacy measures. Users need a solution that ensures their data and compute jobs remain secure and private throughout their execution and storage processes.

### Lack of Interoperability

The current ecosystem lacks interoperability between different compute and storage platforms and blockchains. Users are often locked into specific ecosystems, making it difficult to transfer data, share computational workloads, or use services across chains. This limitation restricts user flexibility and choice, hampering the potential for innovation in decentralized infrastructure solutions.

### Transition Challenges from Web2 to Web3

As the digital world shifts toward decentralized solutions, users face hurdles when transitioning from Web2 to Web3. Many users are unfamiliar with blockchain technology and may find the authentication and onboarding processes complex. This gap can hinder widespread adoption of decentralized compute and storage solutions.

These challenges highlight the need for a unified solution that can address the fragmentation of compute and storage platforms, enhance security and authentication, improve interoperability, and provide cost-effective, privacy-focused options.
